A okay.
If you thought that position relative was somewhat fun.
Wait till you meet.
Position absolute which is in my opinion a real rock star in a sea of sex.
What do I mean by that.
Well let's take a closer look.
First I would like to get rid of this relative or we can just delete it maybe altogether later on.
Actually throw out this video and add it back.
But for now just to show you how everything is going work.
I will gonna delete this position relative where does position upload come into play.
First I'm gonna go to the special one since this was the reason why we added it and then let's say position
here.
Since this is our option or position then for position we're not going to go with the relative where
we're going and go for absolute.
Now once we say it notice what happens already we're having some interesting changes NOW OKAY SO FAR
SO GOOD.
SO WHAT'S HAPPENING.
WELL WITH position absolute we're also placing this position relative or on this position relative to
the nearest ancestor that has the position relative.
Now if position absolute cannot find that ancestor if it doesn't exist then it places itself relative
to the body.
Now if for checking here in the next animal how many ancestors does this plan has.
Well it has the first one the parent with the class of number two then it has the div which is the second
one and then since none of them have position relative then it looks for the body.
Now you don't believe me.
Let's test it out.
So here we go in all right top since again these are our properties for the manipulation of the position.
And let's say for the top is gonna be easier because we can add any kind of value and we can also add
zero.
So let's say top 0 and right is also gonna be 0.
Let's see what's gonna happen and what happened.
Well the absolute special of the special class with position absolute moved all the way to the top right
corner of the body because like I said if there's not gonna be an ancestor that basically is going to
work as a position relative then we're not going to be able to capture that.
You want me to show you Mark.
So if indexation email I had position number two or class number two for the paragraph.
If we're gonna head over back to the C assess and if we're in the right position and in this case this
is going to be relative notice what's gonna happen.
So now this span with a class of special is gonna be sitting in the same position with position absolute
and top right corner 0 0.
However this is gonna happen within this paragraph.
We have a class of 2 and the reason for that because we added this class of relative where I'm sorry
we added the position of relative.
Now what's gonna happen if I'm going to remove it again it's gonna go back to the body.
Well we can also test it out on the dev let's do the same thing we're going to say that the position
is not going to be static and instead of going to change it and I was gonna say that this is going to
be relative.
So now this is saying zero and zero.
However within the div now nothing is gonna happen if we're going to place here the position relative
in one because what we need is the actual ancestor.
In this case this is just gonna be a sibling for the class of Number Two program.
This is not going to be an ancestor for this class of special.
So that's the reason where whenever we play something with a position absolute.
If we don't want it to be placed relative to the Murray we need to have some kind of parent element
or transistor element that's going to have a class of relative.
I'm sorry the position of a relative and just to show you that we can actually place it in the body
again wherever we would like.
First of all let me change it that I know 50 percent here let's say 50 percent up and 50 percent bottom.
Or I'm sorry.
Right.
And this is gonna place it somewhere here and you can see that there is one thing missing and that one
thing is the fact that we haven't looked at a transform properly yet and we will gonna look sooner because
at the moment you can say well it's technically not sitting in the center.
That is correct because we would need to shift a little bit the position of this element.
However this is close enough for the Center for us just to show you that we can use any kind of values
whether it be percentages will or just is going to be pixel again.
Really anything you would like and then this time I can just remove the relative and you'll see that
this is gonna be sitting pretty much all the way in the center here of the body because again there
is no answers there that does have this position relative.
So this is not placed relative to those answers there.
Now one thing though in the next video we're going to be looking at position fixed in this case.
If you place it here with this position top let's say 50 50.
This is gonna disappear as we're scrolling.
So if we're gonna be adding more elements here and there is going to be scrolling down.
This element with a glass of special he is actually going to disappear as we're scrolling.
So it's gonna be callable our weird position fixed.
What's gonna happen is that the element is gonna stay.
So even though we're placing right now relative to the body.
This is not gonna stay on a page as we're scrolling down.